# Contribute to the Vanier FLOSS Club Website

Feel free to join and discuss about the project on our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/rBKb9JRQGD). It is highly recommended to do so. Most discussions about the project are done there.

This document is meant to help you to get started to contribute to the project. It also contains the basic procedures that is being followed when working on the project.

## Getting Started & Contribute

### Explore the Project and the Issues

If you are interested in contributing to this project, start by exploring the project codes and issues (tasks to be worked on).

This project is a website built for the Vanier College FLOSS Club. It is based on [React](https://react.dev/) and [Vite](https://vite.dev/). For more details about the project's structure, please refer to the [README](README.md) file.

Then, check out the issues from the [Project Roadmap](https://github.com/Vanier-FLOSS-Club/website/issues/1) or the `Todo` column of the [Project Backlog](https://github.com/orgs/Vanier-FLOSS-Club/projects/1/views/1). Those are the list of general features and bugs (or specific tasks) that are confirmed to be worked on. You may also check other issues in the other columns of the backlog or listed in the [Issues tab](https://github.com/Vanier-FLOSS-Club/website/issues) and engage in discussions about them, but they might not get worked on until *a)* a related discussion is done and *b)* they've been added to the roadmap and moved to the `Todo` column.

Once you've found an issue that you want to work on, please leave a comment on it to let us know that you are working on it. This will help us avoid duplicate work and keep everyone informed about the progress of the project.

### Work on the Code

Once you've been assigned on a task, you can start working on it. If you are not a member of the Vanier FLOSS Club organization yet, you can fork the repository and work on the forked repository. If you are a member, you can work on the main repository directly.

**ALWAYS use a separate branch for your in progress work.** This helps us to keep the main branch clean and organized, we can also make sure that the main branch only contains the deployable version of the code in this way. It is recommended to name the branch in the following format:

- `feat/<short-description>` for new features, e.g. `feat/mdx-support`
- `fix/<issue-number>` for bug fixes, e.g. `fix/1234`

For other purpose, follow the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) prefix and then append a brief description, e.g. `docs/add-contributing`.

If you have any question, don't hesitate to ask in the on Discord or in the issue/PR comment. You may ping any of the following active project maintainers if you need help: `@Cubik65536`, `@chauveaul`.

### Contribute to the main branch

Once you've completed your work, you can create a pull request (PR) for your changes. Ideally, a PR should have a descriptive title and detailed description. A project maintainer will review the PR, provide feedback for further improvements, and merge it into the main branch once it's ready.

If you need some help while working on the code, you can also create a draft PR. This allows you to get feedback on your work in progress and make any necessary changes before submitting the final version.

*If you are a member of the Vanier FLOSS Club organization*, you do have the permission to directly merge your branch into the main branch (or directly merge your own PR). However, it is always recommended to let your code go through a review process.

## Use of External Codes

### Use of External Libraries and/or Frameworks and/or Open Source Codes

As long as the usage complies with the open source license of the external code and the project, you are free to use any external codes. However, please make sure that the codes are well tested and documented before letting them get into the main branch.

### Use of AI

We are open to the use of AI tools (e.g. GitHub Copilot) to assist in the development process. However, please ensure that any code generated by AI is thoroughly reviewed and tested.

>[!NOTE]
> This rule applies only on codes. Separate rules apply for the website content (e.g. page content, posts, images, etc.).
